# spotifyPlaylist
Lab #4 - Creating a Spotify music playlist using stack and queue data structures.

This java program reads in multiple CSV files of full weeks of a fiscal quarter from Spotify's Top 200 Artist dataset, makes a queue for each file of song objects, then using a merge function, it creates a single queue that works as a playlist of all the songs. Next, it removes any duplicates, sorts the songs by track name in ascending order. Then as you play a song from the queue, it plays(Prints) the music in "first in first out order", and add songs to my stack to keep track of the last played song. So if I want to know the recently played song, the stack can peek the last one which was recently added because it's in "last in first out order". Also, it can print out the stack for a full history, in order, the songs get played(added) from last to first.

This repository contains multiple CSV files of full weeks containing Top 200 Artist dataset downloaded from Spotify, the source code "spotifyplaylist.java", and two output file - "allSongs.txt" - that contains all the songs in the queue playlist in ascending order, and the other one "playlist.txt" that will contain the output demo of playing from the queue playlist, recently played song and a full history of all the songs played.

First, I made a song class that takes all the data of the song and returns a song's object. Then I made a queue class that has my LinkedList in it that will contain songs objects. My queue class has a constructor that takes a String file and using a dataExtract method, it converts each file data into a LinkedList of songs objects. After it converts the file data, I used a merge function, that takes two linked lists at once and returns one in return. Now I have one queue that has all the songs object from all the files. In my queue class, I added addSong method that pushes song object in the list, listentoSong method that removes the first song object from my list (First in first out order in a queue). Also, I have a removeDuplicates method that removes any duplicates and a sort method that uses the Collections sort method, to sort the songs in my queue in ascending order. To keep track of songs as they get removed from the song playlist, I made a SongHistoryList that implements the stack from the java library. So songs get inserted in my stack as they get removed from my queue playlist, and when I call the recently played method it returns the most recently inserted song from the stack because it is last in first out order. I also have a fullHistory method that returns all the songs played in order from last to first. In my main, I call the display method that prints out all the songs in my queue playlist and a demo of listentoSong(), lastListened(), and fullHistory() methods to check if my code works.

